all right good afternoon
my name is bill bench as the voice just
said and i'm operating partner at
battery ventures right now but i've only
been doing that for about nine months i
am a classic operator for the last 29
years before that i was in companies and
notably i was in a company called
marketo
for almost a decade and uh to set the
stage for today's presentation i was
supposed to not be alone on this stage i
was supposed to be with phil fernandez
the ceo and co-founder but like with a
lot of big production events things
don't always go to plan and he
unfortunately had some travel issues
yesterday and was able to make it in so
it'll be interesting to watch me do this
presentation because it was designed for
two of us so maybe on one point i'll
stay on this side of the stage then i'll
step over to another side and try to do
maybe a little he said she said type of
thing but
before diving into the presentation
let's talk about the ceo and cro dynamic
and i don't have slides for this but i
took a couple notes to lead off
the discussion today around how i think
ceos and cros can get onto the same page
i get asked that question a lot
as an operating partner in a ventra firm
which is how can the ceo and the head of
sales really align well and so i want to
give five things that i think
really set up the ceo and the cro to be
tightly coupled
so if you take notes this is a great
time to pull out your pencil or your
your phone to take them down because
i'll give you five things that aren't up
on the slides here
okay number one for ceos and cros to get
connected
the two of you should have this
discussion
if at the end of the month or the end of
the quarter we have made our quota we
have made 100
but we could have made it a
buy more logos
yet a smaller acv
or b
fewer logos but a bigger acv
which one is better now there's no right
answer
but i'll tell you this as a past cro
it's really critical that you and the
ceo have the same answer so it doesn't
matter which answer it is that you have
but have the same answer so that's
number one my advice of cross and ceos
getting on the same page number two
i have this concept of scoring deals one
of things that phil the ceo of marketo
and i did after every month when we
finished a month we would sit down and
physically print off
every deal we had just closed for that
month prior and we would score them and
the scoring doesn't matter how you do it
you can do a 1 through 10 scale an abc
grading type of program but the idea
here is for the two of you to sit down
on a monthly basis and look at the deals
that you've just closed and look at the
terms that you gave the discount that
you wrote the concessions that you
granted and agree
on is this a good deal for the company
or is this a bad deal because the
reality is if you're a young company if
you're under a million dollars in arr or
one to three million in arr at that
point you're probably taking any deal
that you can right you bend over
backwards to go win
a new logo and that's an important and
good thing to do but it's also important
for the two of you to get connected on
what are the future deals that we do
going to look like what what's a good
deal for our organization look like so
suggestion number two is score your
deals
suggestion number three
i used to do this with a prior ceo as
well where what we would do is once a
quarter
he would ask me
bill go build your current org chart and
then build me one plus one plus two and
plus three quarters ahead
out and visualize for me what you think
the org will look like and he's like
boss wait should i just take the
business plan that we have written and
build the org chart against and say no
no i don't care what the business plan
says i want to know what's up here in
your head you're the leader you're the
driver of the revenue organization i
want to hear what you think our business
is going to look like in a quarter two
quarters three quarters and that was the
basis for us to do a little game play
type of situation we would then go to
dinner
every month
and this was a great great process for
us to go through and that dinner was a
safe zone it was a safe zone for me to
go and throw out ideas and this was
using a sports analogy this was like
sometimes i'd go in there i propose like
a three-team trade like this player goes
to this team this tip this person over
to here and this coach moves over here
it was just a really great way for he
and i to get connected on how we thought
the business was evolving aside from
what a business plan looked like right
because you wrote a business plan back
in december or november of last year and
now here we are in may and things have
changed and so he always wanted to see
what i was what i was thinking about and
getting into my head so another great
ceo to cro connections that's the number
three
fourth one
is
most companies build a top-down business
plan for instance if you did three
million bucks in arr last year someone
the cfo the ceo decides we're gonna do
six million this year and that's your
top down plan and a lot of times people
say well we did three million last year
with five reps
this year we're gonna go to six million
let's just get 10 reps
wrong it's just not that simple all
right
my suggestion here is that you take that
top-down plan and marry it with a
bottoms-up plan and i'll get very
tactical here with you but that's this
is literally building the waterfall of a
spreadsheet of here are the reps i have
and by month how much quota i have
assigned out on the street
and then here are the reps i'm going to
hire and when they come on but now
remember when you hire reps there's a
ramp so you have to incorporate that in
there your reps that are already there
someone's going to fail right they're
not going to work out you have to fire
them or they resign so you got to put in
an ad attrition into the model then you
got to add a pro productivity metric to
it because not everybody ramps at the
exact rate that you thought they would
so you've got to add some nuance if you
will to that sheet and what i will
guarantee you you will find is that
top-down plan that said six million and
going from five to ten reps will now say
to get to six million you need 14 reps
guarantee guarantee that those two reps
will those two plans will be
disconnected out there in the world so
um a great way again for ceo cro to get
onto the same page and the last one that
i'll give you
is i believe in this as a truism
whenever you finish a period a month or
a quarter whatever your quota process is
there's two reasons you made or missed
your quota you either had enough pipe or
didn't have enough pipe
and you converted or didn't convert at
your normal rates and i would highly
recommend you do this analysis a lot of
people do it for the board meeting i'd
recommend you do it on a monthly basis
look at your month and look how you're
trending and look and see
at the end of the month
well the prior month we converted and
when i say converted what i mean is take
your pipeline categories your commit
your best case your upside whatever your
categories are
and start tracking what you convert on a
monthly basis of that pipeline so you
can start getting a trend and look back
and on the month you just finished look
back and see did we convert at our
normal conversion rates that we've done
in prior quarters if the answer is no
then you probably didn't execute on the
sales side very well you didn't succeed
at the way you wanted to and on the
marketing side you look at your pipeline
you'll see did we have enough pipeline
to go into the month or the quarter
before we started so those five
suggestions are the five things not on
the slides here that i want to run
through
of ideas of how cros and ceos can get on
the same page so
with that let me dive in
the plan
that phil and i had for today was to go
back in time
and do a little bit of a back and forth
on some things that we felt
helped drive growth
and those things that still have impact
today
so let me talk about this from this
perspective marketo was founded in o6
we brought the product to market in
march of 2008.
we went public as a company in may of
2013 so it was five years five years and
a couple months and we were over 100
million bucks an ar so super fast growth
and if i look back on some of the
elements that i think really helped
drive it let me walk you through mine
and then like i said i'll try to step
into phil's shoes
and share what he thought were some of
those items for me
monthly quotas now i'm sure several of
you are in the audience here saying well
bill i sell an enterprise product i sell
big ticket a long sale cycle monthly
quotas don't seem to fit and i would
challenge you i would challenge you to
challenge that assumption and see if it
did fit because even marketo which
started off as an smb play and moved
into the enterprise we kept
sm or we kept monthly quotas intact for
many many years because it created a
cadence it created a pace that we moved
at inside of that organization
you know people talk about
sports and you look at great sports
teams it doesn't matter if it's a soccer
team if it's a basketball team it
doesn't matter what your sport of choice
is but think about what happens
in the last few minutes or the last few
seconds of any tightly contested game
what happens is you see performance peak
and you get to see people perform at
their best and what i would submit is by
being on a monthly quota you get 12
viewpoints into your business that way
you get the ability to see
12 different views as opposed to
thinking about it in quarterly basis
where you have that big run up for the
last couple of days of a quarter i think
about it in terms of 12 monthly
runs to do it i think it's a great way
to train a team to build urgency i think
it's a great way to train a company
around a cadence so for me monthly
quotas are one of the secrets that i
have out there especially if you're an
smb focused business number two
logo acquisition this goes back to the
question i asked would you rather have
more logos in a lower
acv or higher acv and less logos i
almost always default to more logos and
the reason is is customer experience
means something it helps train the whole
organization to be better because if you
think about it if sales is closing logos
it's telling you something about product
market fit all right so number one it's
giving confidence to your sales
organization and then that therefore
probably gives your cs team experience
being able
to enable your customers so they're
getting the ability to hear what
customers are wanting to use where they
want to see the product evolve to and
then they can feed that back up to the
top of the food chain which is your
product and eng teams and say our
customers are asking for these things
and that's very helpful for the
organization because then product pushes
that down to marketing marketing to
sales it starts that whole cycle again
so logo acquisition was a key thing at
marketo that fueled our success i think
it still resonates today
and then thirdly is optimizing to get
your buyer into the demo and the reason
i say this is think about what it takes
to get a demo today right like you i'll
talk about this in a little more detail
in a second but someone to come and go
through a demo has gone through a lot
with your organization because they had
to click on that get a demo button they
had to convert they had to talk to a
bunch of people and then they had to
spend an hour hour and a half maybe two
hours of time with you and your
organization
to learn about your product now think
about if they're evaluating three
different products three different
companies that's like six eight hours of
their time to be able to schedule all
that it's a lot of work but the output
is this your best buying intent leads or
somebody that's taking your demo that
hasn't changed in a long time so to me
optimizing to get to your demo so if you
ask me three things that work in the 08
to 13 period that still resonate today
those are my three
now phil here if we've been doing this
we've been going back and forth phil
would have said sales and marketing
alignment now that's easy thing to say
but so let me give a little bit more
detail on what i mean by that um a great
great
i think process that you can drive with
your marketing and head of sales
together
is to have the two of them sit down and
work on your messaging arc
it's a critical thing a lot of times
that messaging arc comes out of just the
product or the product marketing team
but incorporating it in with your head
of sales is critical to making sure that
your two teams stay on the same page and
i think any company that's a fast growth
company you tend to see there's a
symbiotic relationship between the
marketing and the sales team meaning the
marketing team's doing what they're
doing they're helping generate leads
generate demand for the sales team and
sales team is over there taking the ball
and swatting it down and making it
a closed deal
all right number two culture of success
again an easy thing to say harder thing
to pull off what do i mean by that well
i think if phil were here talking about
what he would share is a culture of
success is always setting a higher bar
at marketo
we would like i said run on monthly
quotas as soon as we would achieve a
monthly quota you know what our next
monthly quota was
it was higher whatever that quota had
been we set the bar higher and if we
missed a quota we take a step back we'd
pause assess why we missed it did we
miss it because we didn't have enough
pipeline or did we not convert right and
we'd look at those things and make some
adjustments to our organization and then
we'd set a new bar as soon as we hit
that bar we'd raise it and go to another
quota so culture of success is about
building that winning locker room
psychology inside your organization
that's what we talk about and then
thirdly his one would be velocity which
is very similar to my first two there of
monthly quotas and the focus on logo
acquisition he's a big believer of
repetition and if you're here earlier
dave kellogg spoke about
building repeatability inside of your
organization like that's the true
definition of product market fit
inside of a business like
ours a sas business velocity is key is
getting that ability to have things be
repeatable faster so
you can kind of see where this
presentation is going three things that
work now let's talk about three things
that don't work or have changed in maybe
the last 10 years since 2012 2013.
so the first one's an obvious one dave
kellogg talked about this again as well
about the office space model he was up
here talking about that today or i'm
sorry jason said this at the kickoff
that today
talent is global and you need to be able
to go grab that talent based on where it
is gone i think are the days and i know
a lot of you will remember this where
you had that centralized tub or a couple
of hubs maybe if you're in the u.s and
east and the west coast if you're in
europe maybe something in london or
dublin or something like that where you
had all of your people based now this is
a challenge i will admit i don't think
we're at the end of this road here i do
think there will be some return to work
so i don't think we're at the uh at the
final answer this but i'll tell you i
miss this because i did enjoy going to
an office and hiring that brand new
sales rep or that brand new sdr and you
know how you trained them when you
didn't have a formal training program
you sat them next to your best sdr your
best ae and they learned through the
process of osmosis right they learn face
to face so there was value in that
office based culture today that's called
gong right it's called call recording
software that's what you're probably
using to try and get that osmosis to
happen over there but that office based
model has clearly changed and we're all
aware of it
so i i try to give advice to
employees that are interviewing try not
to be dogmatic about saying i'll never
go to an office because if you say that
you're probably not going to get looks
at the best companies and likewise to
the employers i try to say try not to be
dogmatic the other way of saying you
have to come to an office because
there's going to be a whole group of
employees that you're not going to have
access to because they're not going to
buy into that so right now that model's
a little bit more open that's something
that that worked back then it was a huge
secret to marketo's success i remember
when we were building the organization
we said up to 50 employees
we'll have them all based on our
headquarters when we got to 50 we said
well let's try it up to 100 because it
seems to be working pretty well right
now so we did it up to 100 and then up
to 150 and then finally i got to the
point that i was jumping on a plane so
much going on sales calls that i said i
needed sales reps in different locations
and that's when we started actually
hiring remote people that model i think
has changed forever but i do think that
we will come back to see some office
based things but that's one of the
things that has evolved since that since
a decade ago
the second one is the enterprise sdr
model uh everybody everybody familiar
with this situation
buyer comes to your website on a monday
knocks on the door right how do they
knock on the door they probably click a
get a demo or contact sales button and
what happens an sdr sends them a note
says hey bill welcome to our site saw
you're looking at our content love to
schedule some time to talk what happens
from there the sdr schedules a time for
tuesday to talk with me so i get on the
phone scr qualifies me asks me a bunch
of questions says listen i'm now going
to go introduce you to phil
who's phil phil's the sales rep who's
going to do the demo that you wanted
okay when's that going to happen
tomorrow so now i get scheduled on
wednesday to go meet with phil phil gets
on the phone he asks me a bunch of
questions probably the same questions
that the sdr asked me the day before and
i'm like oh geez can i just get a demo
from you guys and and and phil says hey
look based on what you told me i want to
do a custom demo for you i want this to
be special what's that mean that means i
want to get a sales engineer involved
okay well when then can they come on
tomorrow so now on thursday
okay so i just played out like the
absolute worst case buyer's journey
situation but honestly that happens a
lot and that goes back to my comment
about like optimizing for getting your
buyer to the demo because if you think
about that
that was marketo's experience 10 years
ago marketo you knocked on our door on a
monday we had to put you through the
qualification we had to then size up
what your needs were sometimes bring an
se and it took three or four days to get
a demo to you and today that just
doesn't work i mean i remember
fundraising for marketo and going to
meet with venture capital firms and phil
the ceo saying you know can you imagine
if you went to facebook and clicked to
build us uh you know profile to set up
your first profile and it said we'll get
back to you in 30 days right like that
was the enablement process no one would
have used it right there was an instant
gratification thing that b2c apps
that applied to us well that is now
applying to us in the business to
business world and so people are
thinking i want to move faster so i'm
going to talk about a few ideas of how
you can do that second but the
enterprise str model of the old you know
let me let me schedule timing with you
let me qualify you let me send you that
there are ways to optimize that that's
that's not working quite the way it did
10 years ago
and lastly the controversial one here
abm all right so i'm sure a lot of you
jumped ahead and saw that no one said
wait abm that seems pretty popular right
now
i'm not here to say that abm doesn't
work i'm here to say
well so first of all just for a little
credibility
john miller was the co-founder of
marketo and he went on to found a
company called engagio engagio's now
part of demand base and gagio was an abm
company so one of the founders of
marketo took his toys and went to the
next thing to build abm and it was a
good move and so um i don't wanna i
don't wanna like rain down on abm's
parade but what i wanna share is that
abm is not a technology it's a process
inside your organization and i remember
inside of marketo probably some of the
ideas that just stated the idea for john
to go found what would become engagio
was as we started growing into the
enterprise we had to change our
marketing right at that point we were
focused on inbound leads and prosecuting
those leads and suddenly we now have to
think about outbound and we had to think
about how we were going to go out
and focus on accounts as opposed to
individuals and how once we sold to an
account how we're going to continue to
proliferate through that organization
and we did a lot of work on that we did
a lot of methodology planning
inside the organization to build that
and so i would submit to you that abm
still works but abm is a process first
that you then enable with the technology
second so three things there that that
have changed or evolved or don't work
like they did 10 years ago
so as i promised
there's several new techniques that i
think are out there and i i'm going to
segue a bit into some product led
concepts here now product led is a topic
that phil and i talk about all the time
because
back in 2008
marketo had a free trial
all right and a lot of people say well
isn't a free trial essentially product
led yeah maybe it was back then it was
very discreet the trial you came you
clicked on get a trial button and then
someone called you and we had to enable
you and that enablement took
human beings about eight hours to get
you up live and launching on your trial
that's not what i'd quite define as
product led today
so that's where i want to dive into this
and talk about because there was trials
there was free there was freemium and
they were all very like i said discrete
silo type of things today they overlap
and intermix together so i'm going to
run you through a few ideas that i'm
seeing out there in the world right now
that i think are really exciting that
are helping evolve the sdr model are
helping fuel growth and are helping
quite honestly drive virality so let me
walk you through these things
first is less human involvement in
access to the products that to me is the
core definition like
it's hard to really pin down what plg
product led growth is
but if you ask me it's really removing
friction from the process for the buyer
to be able to get access to your
products that to me is the essence
of what plg is
there's other things inside our products
today that are making it much easier to
understand how we can
work with our buyers right there's user
telemetry i worked for a company called
pendo if you know what pendo is it's a
user behavior analytics company it
measures all the usage inside of a
product of where your users are are
applying the product
at pendo we're able to go and help a lot
of these plg companies design what their
product was gonna go look like because a
lot of times you build a product it's a
huge massive box
and only ten percent twenty percent of
it gets used well in that case it
probably doesn't make sense to make that
available to all of
your customers maybe you just make that
10 or 20 that they really want to use
available and that extra piece becomes
your upsell ability so user telemetry is
something that's available inside of
products today a lot of companies are
building it themselves a lot of
companies are buying products like pando
to be able to do it
really really great mode
self-service models
anybody here ever land that big deal you
go close the deal in microsoft or
santander bank or something like that
you close in a division and you're super
excited because it took you six months
you landed the division and now your
sales team goes back to the beginning
and starts that whole process
over again they go through the whole
process
of trying to sell to division number two
division number three and they have to
run that whole process again
one of the benefits of product led
things is making it easier for your
product to spread
across the customers you've already gone
to used to be in the days that you would
go land deer division and then you would
go to those people once you made them
successful and ask them for referrals
inside the organization today
by having a product led strategy a
growth strategy that that puts the
product first you can get the product
into the hands of other divisions in a
much more easy fashion than we could
before so that's a big thing
product tours if you haven't seen this
i'm become a really big fan of this idea
if you think about your standard website
right you have website navigation
let's be honest the value of that to
your customer is fairly low
and the value to you as a vendor is
fairly low because you number one don't
know who the person was they're just an
anonymous lead you cookied them that's
all you've got and to them they got to
go choose their own adventure in a way
that you know you tried to put your best
foot forward but you can't control the
buying experience so it's kind of a low
low
value piece
and then the next stop on your website
is get a demo and we've already talked
about this get a demo means i click on
that button i fill out a form you put me
into a nurture campaign an sdr calls me
and ae calls me i get the demo it's like
a couple hours of commitment it's high
value to me as the vendor and it's high
value to me as the buyer but there's a
huge gap between those twos you have
website nav down here
and get a demo up here what's in between
there on your website and that's where
product tours if you haven't seen these
there's a couple of companies out there
that make the software that
essentially lets you tell the story
of your product and the value you
provide through the product you get to
walk through the product and the great
thing about these technologies it's not
like just a video where you start it and
it stops they allow branching they allow
you to essentially choose which path you
want to go down you can do some
interesting things like gate it so that
i can go to the website watch the
product tour once but if i liked what i
saw and i come back and i want to show a
colleague it puts a form up there so now
i have to convert to be able to show my
colleague which means you just you've
just grabbed value from me by getting
this name so product tours i think is a
great intermediary on your website
again another great way to align your
sales and your marketing team is that
the sales and marketing team look at
your website and try and visualize what
your ideal customer buying process can
look like and the simple answer is today
it's not one path there's not just one
path to go down of getting the demo
there's the website nav there's product
tours there's uh like drift and intercom
bots and people being able to engage
that way there's videos there is product
tours there's get a demo and then
there's free freemium downloads of
actually giving someone your product and
if you look at some really modern sites
out there a lot of the best ones have
all of those available and essentially
the idea there is what they're trying to
do is just drive higher conversions
inside their business they're trying to
say i'm going to go give my buyer the
ability to come in and choose how they
want to engage with me or what i call
meet the buyer where they're at so
that's product tours
calendars instead of forms we're all
used to clicking on the button of
contact sales or get a demo and the
first thing that comes up is first last
email company name employee size maybe a
couple of other fields
but have anybody in this audience gone
to those sites where you go and click on
it the first thing that comes up is a
calendar and you get to go schedule your
demo
you're again disrupting the sdr model
you're going straight to
the sales rep and being able to connect
with them and schedule the time of when
you want to get a demo so i'm a big fan
of that now some of you can ask is that
a product led like is that changing how
you get access to my product no it's not
but it's a product led motion that's
driving people
to be able to engage and like i said
reduce friction with how they work with
you
um deminars this has always been around
but this is something that i try to give
companies advice to if you're an
organization that has more than 30 demos
in a week across your entire
organization 30 is kind of my metric you
should consider putting up a weekly
webinar on your website where you invite
people to it why well think about it
number one you save a lot of time if you
have 30 demos across 10 different reps
that means each reps doing three or four
demos what if you can consolidate and
every wednesday at 11am your local time
you do
one demo it's a live demo
and you bring eight people or 12 people
to it a couple things happen number one
you'll probably get 10 or 15 to sign up
you'll probably get half that amount to
a 10 but you've just picked up a bunch
more leads that you can follow up on
number two is you save wear and tear on
your sales engineers and your sales reps
on being able to go and touch those
people and freeing them up to do more
important tasks out there so i think the
weekly deminar idea if you're above 30
on a week is a really one and then
finally simplified user terms this is
critical if you go back to again the
enterprise selling kind of classic model
we used to have these heavy msas where
everything had to be negotiated you have
to sign one today we mostly click
through those types of msas because why
because we're taking our terms and we're
looking at what industry standards are
and making them easy so a few new
techniques that exist today that have
popped up in the last five or six years
that i think you can apply to your
business that don't make your company
more plg but make them more plg-esque
so last slide here a few takeaways
nrr the new magic metric now i didn't
talk about this in this whole session
but let me let me share how important
this is when marketo was growing itself
in its fast growth days we went public
in 2013 our first earnings call the
analysts congratulated us on getting
public congratulated us on our first
quarter results and the first question
they asked
was geez about 75 of your business is
new business focused
what's your plan to become more
enterprise grade and we said what do you
mean they said well top enterprise
software companies do at least 50
percent of their business through
expansion which is nrr it's the health
metric and 2013 we could get away with
that we could go public and not have a
really clear plan around that but today
after arr and ar growth the most
important metric that's looked at is
what your nrr rates your net retained
revenue metric is and i would submit
this if you are a plg company this is
going to be interesting today above 120
nrr is considered best in class kind of
the place you want to be
i will submit that plg product companies
are going to start seeing 150 200 300
nrr because why because they're going to
start on a lower price price point as an
entry and they're going to expand up
further beyond that so that's number one
takeaways nrr is the new magic metric
number two architect for a growth path
this is the idea that i was talking
about about applying plg concepts inside
of your business
the idea you want to do is be able to
not make everything a custom-made cycle
a custom-made enterprise cycle for your
sales and your marketing organization
you want to make it so there's an easier
way for your product to become a lot
more viral and then lastly this is a
common theme that has been in the
presentation is velocity this is around
the monthly the monthly quotas around
having a logo focus things like that
repeatability is key for you learning
how your business should go so that
is the quick rundown of what was going
to be fill in my ceo cro connection on
how to drive growth both ideas that
worked in the past as well as some new
ideas hopefully some of those apply to
your business hopefully some of those
can be put into effect inside your
business if you want i'll be around for
the next couple days happy to answer
some more questions thanks for joining
me
[Music]
you